Add initial PR for Contributing & Coding Standard (#920)
community-scripts/ProxmoxVE: .github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/ct/AppName.md

> # **AppName<span></span>.sh Scripts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# AppName.sh Scripts
```

I am only going to put this comment once in this review, but as far as I know the following results in the same render:
```
# **AppName.sh Scripts**
# AppName.sh Scripts
```

Thus I would like to propose to keep the markdown clean and not add the formatting.

Reviewer 2: I put <span> there so it will not work as a Link.

> # **AppName<span></span>.sh Scripts**

Reviewer 3: This script seem to be a "I am explaining each line in this install script". If this is the purpose, I may suggest an alternative approach to this:

Copying the whole script in this markdown file and using bash comments to add the relevant documentation context.

The current structure is hard to follow as the reader is not having the script in front of him/her. It is broken down in chapters. While commenting https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/main/ct/snipeit.sh in full length, the reader is having the context visible.

E.g.

```
[...]
APP="SnipeIT"
var_tags="assat-management;foss"
var_cpu="2"
var_ram="2048"
var_disk="4"
# The operating system. Possible values are alpine, debian, ubuntu
var_os="debian"
# ...
var_version="12"
var_unprivileged="1"
[...]
```

Reviewer 2: Put sometimes you only need a short reminder of how to do handle the credentials, or how to do handle config files.  If there is one finished script with comments, this would always be copied and things get left in there for no reason. This should not be a step by step guide for a script, more a how we do things here type of documentation. We could not ever explane any case in one finished script.

>  `AppName.sh` scripts found in the `/ct` directory. These scripts are responsible for the installation of the desired Application. For this guide we take `/ct/snipeit.sh` as example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `AppName.sh` scripts found in the `/ct` directory. These scripts are responsible for the installation of the desired application. For this guide we take `/ct/snipeit.sh` as example.
```

>  `AppName.sh` scripts found in the `/ct` directory. These scripts are responsible for the installation of the desired application. For this guide we take `/ct/snipeit.sh` as example.

Reviewer 3: Just out of curiosity. Why snipeit? Is this a very easy example?
I am asking, because a more popular application may create more engagement. I, at least, don't know "snipeit".

Reviewer 2: It just happens to one of my one scripts, so i know it best^^. Also it is not to complicated/long and inlcudes almost all topics wich are in the guides. This can always be changed of course.

## 1. **File Header**

### 1.1 **Shebang**
- Use `#!/usr/bin/env bash` as the shebang.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
```
### 1.2 **Import Functions**

> - Import the build.func File.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import the build.func file.
```

> - When developing your own Script, change the link to your own repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When developing your own script, change the URL to your own repository.
```
This is an URL, not a link.

> [!CAUTION]

> > Before opening a Pull Request, change the link to point to the community-scripts repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before opening a Pull Request, change the URL to point to the community-scripts repo.
```

Example for development:
```bash
source <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/[USER]/[REPO]/refs/heads/[BRANCH]/misc/build.func)

> ```

Reviewer: I think it would be good to note that this is not enough. There is also a hard-link from the build.func file into the install script: https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/main/misc/build.func

So to make sure that you actually test your own code (and I just found this out the hard way) you also need to change that.

Reviewer 4: Check this [comment](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/pull/920#discussion_r1899189936).
The scripts I've created, replace every URL!
On my end it works, and I can start creating helper scripts really fast without having to remember to change the links etc.

Reviewer: Nice! I'll close this comment then

> Example for final Script: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example for final script: 
```

```bash
source <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main/misc/build.func)
```

### 1.3 **Metadata**
- Add clear comments for script metadata, including author, copyright, and license information.

Example:
```bash
# Copyright (c) 2021-2024 community-scripts ORG

> # Author: [YourUserName]

Reviewer 3: Why is the author needed?
Afaik by contributing upstream + the git history, this is an outdated information very soon.
I also ask myself in which situation this will help?

# License: MIT | https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/raw/main/LICENSE
# Source: [SOURCE_URL]
```

> [!NOTE]: 
> - Add your username and source URL
> - For existing scripts, add "| Co-Author [YourUserName]" after the current author

---

> ## 2 **Variables and Function import**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2 **Variables and function import**
```

> [!NOTE]

> > You need to have all this set in your Script, otherwise it will not work!
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You need to have all this set in your script, otherwise it will not work!

```

### 2.1 **Default Values**

> - This sections sets the Default Values for the Container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This section sets the default values for the container.
```

> - `APP` needs to be set to the application name and must be equal to the filenames of your scripts.

Reviewer 3: Does this imply things like no whitespace, no special chars, etc.?

Reviewer 2: I ´think only whitespaces would be a problem, we have a couple with `-`.

> - `APP` needs to be set to the Application name and must represent the filenames of your scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `APP` needs to be set to the application name and must be equal to the filenames of your scripts.
```

> - `var_tags`: You can set Tags for the CT wich show up in the Proxmox UI. Don´t overdo it! 

Reviewer 3: A good and a bad example might be good here.
What does "overdo" mean? How many tags are too much? Is there a proxmox length limit?

Reviewer 2: There is no hard limit on the proxmox side. Its just there as some sorte of information.

>[!NOTE]
>Description for all Default Values
>| Variable | Description | Notes |
>|----------|-------------|-------|
>| `APP` | Application name | Must match ct\AppName.sh |

> >| `TAGS` | Proxmox display tags without Spaces, only ; | Limit the number |  

Reviewer: var_tags or TAGS?

Reviewer 2: TAGS

Reviewer 3: I assume the question is here because the table says `TAGS` and a few lines above it says `var_tags`. This confuses me as well. Or are those two different context?

>| `var_cpu` | CPU cores | Number of cores |
>| `var_ram` | RAM | In MB |
>| `var_disk` | Disk capacity | In GB |
>| `var_os` | Operating system | alpine, debian, ubuntu |
>| `var_version` | OS version | e.g., 3.20, 11, 12, 20.04 |

> >| `var_unprivileged` | Container type | 1 = Unprivileged, 0 = Privileged |

Reviewer: With the 'constants and environment variables' needing to be in uppercase this makes no sense to me, aren't these constants use throughout the script? They are not arguments for just one function. And they are constants because they do not change.

Reviewer 2: The difference betwene the uppercase and var_ variables is that the upercase ones are sort of fixed values and the var_are ther so a creator of a script can overwrite default values.

Reviewer 3: @michelroegl-brunner Your sentence is gold for the docs. Maybe this comment thread should be one question in a FAQ.

Example:
```bash
APP="SnipeIT"
var_tags="asset-management;foss"
var_cpu="2"
var_ram="2048"
var_disk="4"
var_os="debian"
var_version="12"
var_unprivileged="1"
```

> ## 2.2 **📋 App Output & Base Settings**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2.2 **📋 App output & base settings**
```

```bash
# App Output & Base Settings
header_info "$APP"
base_settings
```

- `header_info`: Generates ASCII header for APP
- `base_settings`: Allows overwriting variable values

> ## 2.3 **🛠 Core Functions**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2.3 **🛠 Core functions**
```

```bash
# Core
variables
color
catch_errors
```

- `variables`: Processes input and prepares variables
- `color`: Sets icons, colors, and formatting
- `catch_errors`: Enables error handling

---

> ## 3 **Update Function**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3 **Update function**
```

### 3.1 **Function Header**

> - If applicable write a function wich updates the Application and the OS in the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If applicable write a function that updates the application and the OS in the container.
```

> - Each update function starts with a standardised Header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each update function starts with the same code:
```

```bash
function update_script() {
  header_info
  check_container_storage
  check_container_resources
```

> ### 3.2 **Check APP**
> - Befor doing anything updatewise, check if the App is installed in the Container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.2 **Check APP**
- Before doing anything update-wise, check if the app is installed in the container.
```

Example:
```bash
if [[ ! -d /opt/snipe-it ]]; then
    msg_error "No ${APP} Installation Found!"
    exit
  fi
```

> ### 3.3 **Check Version**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.3 **Check version**
```

> - Befor updating, check if a new Version exists. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Befoer updating, check if a new version exists. 
```

> - For this we use the `${APPLICATION}_version.txt` file created in `/opt` during the install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We use the `${APPLICATION}_version.txt` file created in `/opt` during the install to compare new versions against the currently installed version.
```

Example with a Github Release:
```bash
 RELEASE=$(curl -fsSL https://api.github.com/repos/snipe/snipe-it/releases/latest | grep "tag_name" | awk '{print substr($2, 3, length($2)-4) }')
  if [[ ! -f /opt/${APP}_version.txt ]] || [[ "${RELEASE}" != "$(cat /opt/${APP}_version.txt)" ]]; then
    msg_info "Updating ${APP} to v${RELEASE}"
    #DO UPDATE
  else
    msg_ok "No update required. ${APP} is already at v${RELEASE}."
  fi
  exit
}
```
### 3.4 **Verbosity**

> - Use the appropiate flag (**-q** in the examples) for a command to suppres its output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the appropriate flag (**-q** in the examples) for a command to suppress its output.
```

Example:
```bash
wget -q
unzip -q
```

> - If a command dose not come with such a functionality use `&>/dev/null` to suppress its output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a command does not come with this functionality use `&>/dev/null` to suppress it's output.
```

Example:
```bash
php artisan migrate --force &>/dev/null
php artisan config:clear &>/dev/null
```

### 3.5 **Backups**

> - Backup userdata if nessesary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backup user data if necessary.
```

> - Move all userdata back in the Directory when the update is finnished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Move all user data back in the directory when the update is finished.
```

>[!NOTE]

> >This is not meant to be a permantent backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>This is not meant to be a permanent backup
```

Example backup:
```bash
  mv /opt/snipe-it /opt/snipe-it-backup
```
Example config restore:
```bash
  cp /opt/snipe-it-backup/.env /opt/snipe-it/.env
  cp -r /opt/snipe-it-backup/public/uploads/ /opt/snipe-it/public/uploads/
  cp -r /opt/snipe-it-backup/storage/private_uploads /opt/snipe-it/storage/private_uploads
```

### 3.6 **Cleanup**
- Do not forget to remove any temporary files/folders such as zip-files or temporary backups.
Example:
```bash
  rm -rf /opt/v${RELEASE}.zip
  rm -rf /opt/snipe-it-backup
```

### 3.7 **No update function**
- In case you can not provide a update function use the following code to provide user feedback.
```bash
function update_script() {
    header_info
    check_container_storage
    check_container_resources
    if [[ ! -d /opt/snipeit ]]; then
        msg_error "No ${APP} Installation Found!"
        exit
    fi
    msg_error "Ther is currently no automatic update function for ${APP}."
    exit
}
```

---

> ## 4 **End of the Script**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4 **End of the script**
```

- `start`: Launches Whiptail dialogue
- `build_container`: Collects and integrates user settings
- `description`: Sets LXC container description

> - With `echo -e "${TAB}${GATEWAY}${BGN}http://${IP}${CL}"` you can point the user to the IP:PORT/folder needed to access the App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With `echo -e "${TAB}${GATEWAY}${BGN}http://${IP}${CL}"` you can point the user to the IP:PORT/folder needed to access the app.
```

```bash
start
build_container
description

msg_ok "Completed Successfully!\n"
echo -e "${CREATING}${GN}${APP} setup has been successfully initialized!${CL}"
echo -e "${INFO}${YW} Access it using the following URL:${CL}"
echo -e "${TAB}${GATEWAY}${BGN}http://${IP}${CL}"
```
---

> ## 5. **Best Practices Checklist**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. **Contribution checklist**
```

These do not seem to be best practices. These seem to be musts for contributions.

- [ ] Shebang is correctly set (`#!/usr/bin/env bash`).
- [ ] Correct link to *build.func*

> - [ ] Metadata (author, license) is included at the top.

Reviewer 3: I think this chapter can be removed. This file is more a "rundown of an install script".

This checklist may be helpful in the PR template.

Reviewer 2: I think it is better placed here. When you finished your script and are at the bottom of the guide you can check yourself. This would make the PR template to convoluted i think.

- [ ] Variables follow naming conventions.
- [ ] Update function exists.

> - [ ] Update functions checks if App is installed an for new Version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Update functions checks if app is installed an for new version.
```

> - [ ] Update function up temporary files.

Reviewer: I don't understand this

> - [ ] Script ends with a helpfull message for the User to reach the App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Script ends with a helpful message for the user to reach the application.
```
